Preamble:

This software is provided as is. We do not guarantee it will work or imply that we can or
will support it. Please do not distribute this software yourself. We are more than happy
to provide this software to all who ask, but without any guarantee as mentioned above.

If you have questions/problems, please email me at scott@rezolytics.com 
to:

And I will do my best.

Notes For Windows Users:

Instead of compiling the program as described below, just place the precompiled poissonv3.eex file
into the directory:

/opt/topspin3.2/prog/bin/ - or equivalent on your system. Rename the file to poissonv3.exe

Install the macro file nusPGSv3 as below.

Installation:

This package is written to provide Poisson Gap Sampling on Topspin 3 and 4 systems. It
is a topspin macro that asks some questions about how you wish to sample and then the macro
calls a compiled program that actually constructs the schedule.  

The macro for Topspin 3 is called nusPGS_TS3 and for Topspin 4 it is called nusPGS_TS4. Move the appropriate file into the appropriate directory. e.g.:

/opt/topspin3.2/exp/stan/nmr/au/src/

or equivalent on your system. 

The compiled program that creates schedules is call poissonv3. Move this file into directory:

/opt/topspin3.2/prog/bin/

or equivalent on your system. Make sure poissonv3 has executable permissions.

You should try and compile the poissonv3 program yourself by issuing the command 'cmppoiss' which
is a simple script that will compile the program on your system. Once compiled move it to the 'prog/bin' directory mentioned above. If it can't compile, try the precompiled version. Failing that, email scott@rezolytics.com 

Things should just work. However I recommend one test before running the macro. When in the
directory: 

/opt/topspin3.2/prog/bin/

make sure that poissonv3 will run properly. You can do so by giving it a command line test.
Make sure the following command executes ok at the command line and generates a schedule:

./poissonv3 2 0 2 818 0.001 64 128 0 0

This should generate two columns with numbers in them. If you got this. You are all set. If
not then there will be problems. Try asking for help and describe with as much detail what
happened when you tried to run the command above.


Execution:

Setup a pulse program like normal in topspin 3.0+ or 4.0+. Now, in the AcquPars table, change 
the FnTYPE to be 'non-uniform_sampling'. Execute the macro by typing 'nusPGS_TS3' or 'nusPGS_TS4'. It will ask
several questions...

1) Random Seed

0 is default and probably what you want.

0 implies the random seed used for random number generation will be selected by the computer. 
Any other number here means you will also get the same sequence. So lets say you want to
compare two acquisitions but are not interested in the differences that might result from 
sampling differently.  

2) Sine portion for sampling

2 is default and probably what you want.

This is not the place to describe what this means. 2 will result in more points towards the
front of the schedule and this is probably best for you. 1 and 0 are experimental and we 
don't suggest you use them unless you know why you want to.

3) Number of points to collect (complex points)

10% of the current numbers of linear, complex points is selected by default.

When running a 2D experiment, you probably want this to me more like 25-50%. 10% of all the 
complex points should work for a 3D experiment. 1-2% should work for a 4D. Not that the
number you put in here is the total number of points to be sampled, not the percentage.

4) Tolerance (as a percentage).

0.01 % is the default. This means the generator must generate the number of points requested
above +/- 0.01%. Most likely this means it will generate exactly the number you asked. 
Sometimes it is hard for the scheduler to find the exact number of samples you ask for so you
may need to add some tolerance here. Try changing it to 10%.

5) Shuffle the schedule (1 = yes, 0 = no)

Default is 1 which means the schedule will be randomly ordered. Using a value of 0 will generate a schedule with the left most column being "fast"
and the right most column being the slowest.

As mentioned above, selecting 1 will shuffle the schedule. It is perfectly fine to do this as the reconstruction 
processing will reorder everything in the end anyway. However, note that the first point,
(0 or 0,0 or 0,0,0) will always remain at the top. 

------------------

And you are done. Everything is set up and you should be now able to collect data with the 
'zg' command. The schedule used will be deposited into the data directory with the name
'nuslist'. You can use this schedule as is during reconstruction with hmsIST.

Good luck!

Scott R. 
